Froon and Kremers: Exploring
the guide as a suspect
Panama's dense, lush forests have a reputation
for being a place of untamed beauty, but for
two Dutch women, it became a nightmare. Kris
Kremers and Lisanne Froon set out on a hike,
documenting their journey on
a camera and their phones,
but when they did not return, a search ensued.
What was discovered only deepened the mystery:
scattered bones, personal items, and cryptic
clues that pointed to a sinister fate.
Was it an accident, an abduction,
or something even more nefarious?
Theories abound, but no one knows precisely what
happened to these two young women. Join us as
we delve into the enigmatic case of Kremers and
Froon, uncovering the secrets of their final days
and a possible suspect with links to multiple
strange deaths in the dark side of paradise!
Let's have a quick look at the
timeline of this perplexing case.
Kris Kremers and Lisanne Froon left their host
family's home in Boquete, Panama, on April 1st,
2014, intending to walk the family's dog through
the scenic forests near the Baru volcano.
Both students, from Amersfoort, Netherlands,
meticulously planned their vacation to
Panama for six months. Their itinerary
included leisurely hikes, sightseeing,
community service by teaching children arts
and crafts, and a course in the Spanish
language.
The pair had hiked through the Panamanian
rainforest for two weeks as part of their
service-oriented backpacking journey. They
intended to spend the next four weeks working at
a nearby school and living with their host family.
However, they vanished without a trace after
saying goodbye to their host family at
11 a.m. on April 1st. Before their hike,
the women announced their intention to
explore the neighboring village on Facebook.
Moreover, they mentioned brunching
with two male Dutch acquaintances.
The host family realized something was amiss
when the dog returned alone that evening.
The following day, on April 2nd, the host family
contacted authorities when Kremers and Froon did
not appear for a private hiking excursion with
a local guide Feliciano Gonzalez. The next day,
the residents conducted an exhaustive search
on foot in the village and surrounding sparsely
wooded regions and an aerial search of the jungle.
As of April 6th, the women were still missing.
The families of Kremers and Froon and
investigators from the Netherlands made
their way to Panama out of fear
of the worst possible outcome.
Ten consecutive days were spent searching the
forests alongside local police and canine units.
Ten weeks passed before any
trace of the two women was found.
A breakthrough in the case occurred when
an indigenous tribes woman turned in a blue
backpack to the police. She claimed that she found
the backpack near a riverbank. The bag contained
two pairs of eyeglasses, $83 in cash, Froon's
passport, two undergarments, a water container,
a camera, and both women's cellphones.
The phones remained active for nearly ten
days after their disappearance, with 77
call attempts to the emergency numbers, 112 in the
Netherlands and 911 in Panama, within four days.
The first two calls to emergency number 112
were made within hours of starting their hike.
Due to the density of the forest, neither
call went through to the emergency number.
Only one of 77 attempts to contact
emergency services was successful,
but the connection was severed within two seconds.
The police discovered that on April 6th,
numerous unsuccessful attempts were made to
access Kremers' phone with an incorrect PIN.
The right PIN was never inputted afterward.
As of April 11th, both phones were dead.
Even though the call history was unsettling, it
paled compared to what was captured on the camera.
The camera's first images were
captured on the morning of April
1st when the women began their journey.
The subsequent photographs were alarming.
Images captured in the early morning hours
of April 8th showed the women's belongings
strewn across rocks, plastic bags, and
empty confectionery packets. In addition,
there was a disturbing picture of the rear of
Kremers' head with blood oozing from her temple.
Following an investigation of the area
where the backpack was found, authorities
discovered Kremers' shorts neatly arranged on the
riverbank. Two months later, a boot with a foot
and a pelvic bone was found in the same area.
Bones from the two women suddenly started
appearing after the first discovery of their
remains. The bones of Lisanne Froon seemed
to have endured natural decomposition,
with some flesh still adhering to them.
In contrast, Kremers' bones appeared to have
been bleached, as they were starkly white.
Despite interrogating nearby residents, tour
guides, and other hikers at the time, the
authorities could not uncover any added evidence
besides photographs and call logs that could cast
light on the incident. Insufficient evidence
existed to determine the cause of mortality.
The Panamanian government had
ruled their deaths an accident!
But is there more to this case than meets the eye?
Journalist Mariana Atencio, who
took a deep dive into the story
of the missing Dutch women, and commented-
"This story is that explosive in Boquete.
A dirty little secret everyone theorizes
about. They refer to it in hushed tones,
and many won't dare grant you an interview about
it in broad daylight. During our investigation,
we came across government corruption, possible
drug trafficking, even mentions of organ and human
trafficking. Without giving too much away, I will
tell you that my life was directly threatened,
which had never happened before, even while
covering cartel-related violence in Mexico
or crackdowns against protests in China or
Cuba". She went on by saying, "As the team
dug into what happened to Kris and Lisanne
eight years ago, we found more than 50 cases
of missing women and girls in that same 40-mile
corridor of Panama. Femicide – extreme violence
and murder of women based on their gender – is
so rampant in Latin America it has been labeled
a "shadow pandemic" by the United Nations.”
If the women were murdered, who was responsible?
Could it be a man who embedded himself into the
search, knows the area like the back of his hand,
and has, through association, a string
of 'accidents' and murders linked to him?
One person's name keeps coming up when suspects
are mentioned, the tour guide Feliciano Gonzalez.
Feliciano Gonzalez was among the last to
see the women alive before disappearing.
After the girls went missing, he investigated the
girls' dorm room, notified the police and claimed
to have seen vultures circling the area. In
addition, Gonzalez discovered some of the women's
remains far to the north on the Serpent River.
None of this sounds too suspicious,
but upon deeper investigation into
Gonzalez, some things don't add up!
Nobody 'sleuths' like internet sleuths, and the
internet doesn't disappoint when it comes to the
suspicions around Gonzalez and his family!!!
One Redditor paints a picture of
how involved Gonzalez was in the
case...maybe a little too involved!
"In my mind, Feliciano is very suspicious.
He has a poor reputation for
being alone with women.
The girls have his card in their bedroom and
have made an appointment with him for April 2nd.
Possibly they found out about his poor reputation
and decided to go alone rather than with
him. Else why did they go a day early?
Or else they never had an appointment with him.
When they don't show up, he goes to Myriam's
house to look for them. She lets him have the key
to their room when he asks after he realizes they
didn't come home the night before. (Myriam and
the Language School behavior point to the local
culture of not really getting upset about
canceled plans / people not showing up/an
apathetic attitude to others. Why did he decide
to look for them? How did he know where to look?
He and another man are in their room
for 30 mins unaccompanied. Why do long?
He 'goes to look' for them up the trail.
He phoned the police at 5 p.m., why so late??
He takes part in the search (inserts
himself into the investigation)
He finds Lisannes's foot or
is there when it is found.
Is all too much coincidence /
involvement for one person ???
Gonzalez's bad reputation with 'European
women' stems from a Trip Advisor review that
warns single women about being alone with him.
“It took me almost a year
to finally post this review.
I strongly recommend women to not hire Feliciano
as your guide if you're by yourself. It's a big
contrast if you look at the other reviews, where
Feliciano is described as a very nice person,
which he probably is for many people.
I have to say, he's very charming,
funny and you can probably, as you will read in
the other reviews, have a great day with him.
Did a walking tour with him. He's the guide that
knows the area by heart. Not long after we left,
he subtly started to flirt with me and also
touched me, first my hand, but also my arms,
shoulder, and legs, even after telling him
many times to stop doing that. He wears a
big machete and suggested chopping off my legs
(this, of course, was a joke, but still...).
He has an obsession with Northern
European women, and I felt very unsafe.
It's a personal story, but google his name, and
you'll unfortunately find more stories like this
about him."
Gonzalez has also changed his story of the day the
women went missing, as seen in this Reddit post
So there are 2 versions of events
that Feliciano claimed occurred:
Early on in the investigation, he told the press
he had seen the girls at the Spanish school the
day before (March 31st), said hello, and gave them
his card. He claims Kris was lying in the hammock,
Lisanne was browsing through some guide leaflets.
Months later, he recanted this story and said he
never met the girls but had an appointment
with them the next day (April 2nd) to visit
his ranch and Volcan Baru (along with Eileen).
In this photo, taken of the girl's room, you
can see his calling card on Kris's bed. Did the
girls place the card there, or did Feliciano plant
it there when he accessed their room the next
morning after the disappearance...? All very odd.
So, is Gonzalez just a creep, or does he have
something to do with the girl's disappearance?
Three months after the women went missing,
Lisanne's blue backpack is discovered on the
edge of a river bank near the unmapped village of
Alto Romero, approximately 5 miles from where the
girls were believed to have been hiking. In
the jungle, five miles is a great distance!
Alto Romero doesn't even exist on maps!
When the blue backpack was discovered, its
contents were arranged and in perfect order.
The woman who found the blue backpack asserts that
it was not there previously and looked like it had
been cleaned. This indicates that the backpack
was placed there shortly before being discovered.
Gonzalez coincidentally
owns a farm in Alto Romero.
Gonzalez's sons and their apparent gang-linked
friends have also been implicated. This Reddit
post is among many who think the two women's
disappearance was a Gonzalez family affair.
"Feliciano was involved with absolutely everything
to do with this case. From finding bones,
to reportedly cleaning the backpack before
turning it into police. Its a classic case
of the murderer joining in on the search and even
finding clues so there is no suspicion on him. I
feel the sons are involved too, keeping it in
the family is how they got away with this, and
most likely have gotten away with it in the past,
and will continue to kill again in the future."
Henry Eliezer Gonzalez, the eldest son of
Feliciano Gonzalez, is possibly affiliated
with a local youth gang in the area. The two
women had previously visited Bocas del Toro
before their journey to Boquete; Henry
Gonzalez is a frequent visitor to the
Bocas del Toro area. While intoxicated,
he was overheard saying strange things
about his encounter with the two women the
day they went missing. As with his father,
he is rumored to have an interest in foreign
women and to be a smooth-talker. Although no
direct evidence implicates him, many online users
have speculated about his possible involvement.
More disturbing is the number of deaths that
have happened to those with ties to the case
and the Gonzalez family!
Osman Valenzuela
Valenzuela vanished three days after
the disappearance of the women. Later,
Osman was discovered drowned in the Chiriquisito
River. Valenzuela was possibly affiliated with a
juvenile gang. It was later determined that
he had met Kris and Lisanne. His body was
discovered just 25 meters from where he was last
seen between the municipalities of Boquete and
Gualaca. According to rumors, no water was found
in his lungs, and his corpse was discovered in an
unnatural position that would not have helped
drowning. To add to the confusion, Betzaida
Pitt verified in 2021 that Osman had helped
SINAPROC with the searches for Kris and Lisanne.
Jose Manuel Murgas
Murgas worked with Osman
and was killed in a hit-and-run accident in 2015.
Murgas was possibly a member of a juvenile gang.
Henry Eliezer Gonzalez wrote on Facebook
that Jose was his "Little soul brother"
after his passing. His corpse was discovered on
the side of the road between Boquete and Dolega,
close to the entrance to the Caldera neighborhood
in the Boquete neighborhood of Chiriqu.
Jorge Rivera Miranda
Miranda was Henry Eliezer Gonzalez's friend
and may have had gang ties. On April 4th, 2015, he
was discovered drowned in extremely shallow water.
His corpse was found in the Grande Stream of the
Dos Ros community in Chiriqu's Dolega district.
Leonardo Arturo González Mastinu
Mastinu was the taxi driver who initially
transported the women to the trailhead
before their hike. He was discovered to be
drowned in the Est River on March 3rd, 2015,
just before the case closed.
One person close to the Gonzalez's who didn't die,
maybe because she had the right mind to get as
far away as possible from them after Kremer's
and Froon's disappearance, was Eileen Witek.
Witek was a German citizen living in Boquete.
She was an "assistant hotel manager" who worked
for Feliciano Gonzalez. After they neglected to
show up for their scheduled hike with Feliciano
on April 2nd, she accompanied him to the women's
hostel, where they were lodging. Eileen helped
Feliciano in reporting the disappearance to
the police. She left Boquete and returned to
Germany within days after that. It is unknown
how much she knows, but her sudden departure
from Boquete is rather suspicious.
The case would have been looked at
very differently by authorities if all of these
characters and events had been followed up on.
What most likely happened to the women if we take
a hypothetical view and add the mentioned people?
The women started on their hike, and at some
point, they are accosted by Gonzalez Sr, Jnr,
or both. They flee down the trail while dialing
emergency numbers and are cornered or trapped but
the person or persons pursuing them. Some type of
sexually motivated crime occurs, and the girls are
murdered. The dismemberment and holding on to the
bodies for decomposition to take place destroys
any evidence. Days later, the perpetrator
unsuccessfully tries to open their phone
and takes several photos, with the camera, deep
in the jungle at night to confuse investigators.
The perpetrator then plants the skeletal remains,
backpack, and neatly folded clothing items in an
area that would be easily found, ruling
out a kidnapping or crime. Any witnesses
close to the Gonzalez are murdered to make
sure that their involvement is never leaked.
We need to consider that the authority's
case was flawed, and there may have been
political pressure to close it as soon as
possible to not shed a bad light on one of
Panama’s most lucrative industries... tourism!
The Attorney General of Panama, Betzaida Pitti,
asserted that the woman died in a
hiking accident when other evidence
showing otherwise could not be uncovered. The
case was closed shortly after that. However,
not all of the evidence was examined.
No suspects were ever interviewed,
and some investigators knew that
the official story was unacceptable.
"The official version of the story makes no
sense," said Enrique Arrocha, who represented the
Kremers family in court. Arrocha's communication
was also odd during a meeting to discuss the case.
His voice and body language suggested he was
being threatened, but he never specified by
whom. He was also escorted by a bodyguard.
"It's almost impossible for the bones to
be in this condition," said Arrocha. He
noted that the chief forensic examiner had
publicly speculated that lime may have
been used to accelerate decomposition.
Nobody knows what happened to Kris Kremers and
Lisanne Froon. Because the investigation concluded
prematurely and the authorities mishandled
the entire process, many gaps in the case
may never be filled. Most importantly, the man
who saw them last, knew where they were going
and is linked to multiple 'tying up loose ends'
murders was never questioned or even suspected!
Do you, The Bad Things Crew, think
the Gonzalez's were involved?
We would love to hear your thoughts,
so comment in the comments section!
If you love our content and want to support
the channel, feel free to check our webshop,
where you can find exclusive True Crime
merch brought to you by Bad Things!